Read Avi's full plan for public options to make life more affordable
here
.

In so many sectors of our economy, the market is failing us. While families are forced to choose between groceries
and rent, three grocery giants dominate our food system and make billions in profits. Three big telecom companies
monopolize our phone and internet plans. Five big banks control our financial services sector. The result? Their
CEOs get rich, Canadians get gouged.

The cost of living crisis we face today demands bold solutions. That means expanding public ownership to lower
bills and improve services while creating good union jobs in the process.

NDP governments have shown how that's possible. Whether it's public auto insurance in Manitoba, the agricultural
land reserve to protect food security in BC, a public telecom provider in Saskatchewan, or of course, Medicare,
our party has created public institutions that continue to make people's lives better and more affordable decades
after their creation.

It's time to take the power back from the price-fixing corporate cartels that have a stranglehold on our economy
and put it in the hands of the people. It's time to build a new generation of public options to reduce costs and
raise our quality of life. That's why an Avi-led NDP will push for:

A public option for groceries

A low-cost public alternative to the big grocery chains. By using a high volume, warehouse style model with
subsidized rent and utilities, and backed up by networked local and regional food hubs to bring in local foods,
grocery costs could be cut by as much as 30-40%.

A network of public telecom providers

A range of public options to lower telecom prices across the country, including a network of public telecom
service providers —inspired by the success of Saskatchewan's publicly-owned SaskTel —to guarantee universal,
affordable and high-speed connectivity, including in rural, remote and Indigenous communities.

Building a million public homes

A public builder to deliver one million social, co-op, non-profit and supportive homes within five years,
cutting costs and speeding construction by using federal lands where appropriate, adopting modular and pre-fab
designs, and using scalable, repeatable construction techniques to speed delivery.

Postal banking

Banking services through the post office like France and Italy so all Canadians have access to affordable
accounts, financial services and loans. Postal banking breaks the payday lenders' monopoly, keeps more money in
the local economy and protects the most vulnerable.

A public pharmaceutical manufacturer

Canada once had a world-renowned public pharmaceutical company, Connaught Labs, until it was privatized by Brian
Mulroney's government. We will establish Connaught 2.0 to rebuild vaccine production capacity while reducing
reliance on multinational pharma and foreign supply chains to ensure reliable and affordable pharmaceutical
supplies for Canadians.

Swipe to see more

Share the vision

Public Options in Action

Pledge your vote for Avi and support the campaign

Donate