Read Avi's full plan for Canada's health and care economy
here
.

Our universal healthcare system is under threat like it never has been before: from Conservative premiers selling
it off piece by piece, and a Liberal federal government that lets them do it while starving the system of funding.

This is why we need an NDP that can stand up and fight to save and expand our healthcare system, including by
fulfilling Tommy Douglas's dream and providing universal, comprehensive healthcare that covers you from head to
toe.

We also need to fight for the people who work in healthcare and the broader care sector. More than three million
people work in the care economy. These underpaid and undervalued essential workers provide the very connective
tissue of society. And care work is low-carbon climate work: vastly expanding and improving these jobs is a key
part of a Canadian Green New Deal.

As our population ages, we need to train and employ thousands more personal support workers to ensure quality
long-term care, and available home care so that seniors can age in place and people with disabilities get the
support they need to live their fullest lives. We also need thousands more early childhood educators, to end the
long waitlists and expand $10-a-day childcare in communities large and small. In order to accomplish this, we must
make care work a career. One that comes with a fair wage, benefits and a pension.

Our plan for a healthy society and a caring economy is about dignity. Ensuring dignity for people who face the
impossible decision of choosing between groceries and medicine, for care workers through livable wages and
benefits, and dignity for the people they look after each and every day.

That's why an Avi-led NDP will push for:

Head to toe healthcare

Introduce truly universal healthcare, bringing pharmacare, dental, vision, hearing, and mental health care under
the public system. Ensure access to primary health care teams in every community. Defend reproductive healthcare
and ensure equal access to abortion services across the country. Address the toxic drug crisis by guaranteeing
and expanding access to life-saving harm reduction services.

Elder and long-term care that serves people, not profit

Remove profit-making from the sector and bring long-term care into the public and non-profit system, regulating
it under the Canada Health Act. Establish and enforce national standards for high-quality care. Fund creative
and local options for aging and care in communities across Canada.

Expanded and improved childcare

Double the number of high-quality spaces in the public and non-profit sectors. Improve access to
culturally-appropriate childcare. Use Canada Post to send a free care package containing essentials to new
parents.

Making care work a valued career

Rapidly expand the number of people in Canada working as nurses, personal support workers, in childcare and
other essential carework roles by streamlining recognition of foreign credentials, increasing wages and
benefits, and making post-secondary education tuition-free.

Swipe to see more

Share the vision

Health & Care Economy in Action

Pledge your vote for Avi and support the campaign

Donate