Among the crises we face today, few are as urgent as the loss of fair and secure work. We have seen the slow
erosion of workers' rights over decades, and we've now reached the point where working full-time doesn't make you
a living - and that's if you're lucky enough to have a job.

Full-time jobs with benefits and pensions are being replaced by temporary, contract, or part-time work. Thanks to
legal loopholes, gig workers and migrant workers are being left without basic protections. Rapid technological
change, especially generative AI, is reshaping industries faster than labour laws are adapting, leaving workers
without the rights, training, or bargaining power they need. And our broken employment insurance system doesn't
kick in fast enough, pay you enough or last long enough.

Our campaign's five-point plan for Dignified Work in a Digital Age offers real solutions to both the old and new
problems facing workers—this is a roadmap to give workers more power, security and control over their lives:

Workplace Democracy & the Right to Strike

Our Humans-First AI Policy

Defend Workers' Rights

Employment Insurance that Works

Justice for Migrant Workers, Immigrants and Refugees

Our plan is about standing up to the bosses, and making sure that every worker, no matter their industry or
immigration status, is treated with the respect and dignity they deserve.

Workplace Democracy & the Right to Strike

Extending democracy into the workplace means making it easier for workers to join unions, giving them a voice and
protection on the job, and defending the right to strike that the current federal government has trampled on
repeatedly in recent years.

It also means expanding worker ownership in Canada. We know this model works. The Mondragón Corporation is a
Spanish federation of 90+ worker co-ops, employing over
80,000 people
in manufacturing, finance, and
retail in the Basque Country, and proving global competitiveness under worker ownership.

This is especially important given how workers are being left at the mercy of big corporations. At the CAMI Plant
in Ingersoll in December 2025, General Motors stopped production of electric cargo vans and laid off 1,100
workers. And just before Christmas this year, Algoma Steel in Sault Ste Marie announced 1,000 layoffs, after
receiving

hundreds of millions in corporate welfare
.

The federal government acts like they're powerless in the face of these layoffs and shutdowns, but they're not. We
cannot allow workers, their families and entire communities to be thrown on to the scrap heap by CEOs who know the
price of everything and the value of nothing.

Here's how an Avi-led NDP would democratize the workplace and save plants from closing:

Create a
National Worker Ownership Fund
to help employees buy out businesses when owners retire,
sell, or relocate.

Pass
Right of First Refusal legislation
giving workers the first chance to purchase their workplace
when the boss walks away.

Provide
low-interest financing and technical support
for worker co-ops, especially in manufacturing,
tech, and services.

To further strengthen workplace democracy, we will make it easier for workers to form unions and defend the right
to strike. Here's how:

Pass Leah Gazan's bill to remove section 107 of the Canada Labour Code
which violates our constitutional
right to strike and interferes with the bargaining process.

Expand Sectoral Bargaining
. Sectoral bargaining can make joining a union easier for precarious
workers, raise workplace standards, and increase collective power.

Champion single-step union certification
by fighting alongside the labour movement to make it the
standard across the country. If a simple majority of workers in a workplace sign a union card, that should be enough
to certify a union, as is the case in Manitoba.

No federal support without decent labour standards
. Federal support for major projects will be
conditional on enforcing decent labour standards, including union membership, mandated safety programs, and
apprenticeship training.

Our Humans-First AI Policy

Our campaign's policy and governing focus is about creating good jobs and improving the health and wellbeing of
people across Canada.

To the extent that small-scale use of machine learning tools can help advance those goals – by helping health
researchers analyze their own data, or solar technicians track the sun throughout the day – we will support that
work.

The problem:
"Artificial Intelligence" is a blanket term used to erase the distinction between publicly
useful, small-scale uses of machine learning (i.e. cancer research) and multi-billion dollar corporate products built
on Generative AI like Large Language Models (LLMs), that are becoming increasingly ubiquitous in our private lives,
schools, and government.

Our position on corporate Generative AI products is that:

They have been built through the theft of private data
, and intellectual and creative property
(including that of millions of Canadians);

The industry's unchecked spending has created a dangerous stock market bubble
, driving an
estimated 80 percent of U.S. stock gains last year and threatening the economic security of Canadians and
Canadian institutions invested in them;

Corporate AI's success is predicated on causing mass unemployment in Canada and around the world –
to keep the bubble from bursting, AI products need to deliver higher "productivity", otherwise known as
rapidly displacing millions of paid jobs
.

The rapid and unchecked build-out of
industrial-scale corporate AI infrastructure like data centres is a threat to our communities' air quality
and access to potable water
;
the massive energy use of these data centres is being met by increasing fossil fuel production
, driving carbon pollution and threatening the transition to clean energy.

Furthermore, the Liberal government is in a massive conflict of interest regarding AI because of Prime Minister
Mark Carney's investments and stock options in the industry
.

The PM holds long-term stock options that cannot be sold in his former company Brookfield Corporation and
Brookfield Asset Management, which recently launched a US$100-billion AI infrastructure program. In this way,
Liberal government's policies to boost corporate AI in Canada will financially benefit the PM through his
long-term entanglements with Brookfield – an egregious conflict of interest that needs to end.

An Avi-led NDP would:

Provide a public-service "human guarantee".
If you need to get a human on the phone in accessing
federal services in Canada, you will be able to. We believe in public service excellence, and that means having dignified,
professional and human access to the services you fund and have a right to use.

No AI Austerity.
Oppose any attempts to replace public servants with chatbots. Reverse Carney's
40,000 public service jobs cuts.

Pause the expansion of AI data centres in Canada
. Americans are in open revolt against the
unchecked expansion of AI data centres that are polluting their air, driving up their local energy costs, and
threatening their access to clean drinking water. We can't let that happen in Canada. Our first priorities are
producing energy for human health and wellbeing (e.g. heating and cooling) and protecting our limited clean
water for human consumption, agriculture and fisheries. A pause on data centres is a much-needed chance for our
systems of government and regulation to catch up to this transformative technology which has been unleashed
without any democratic debate whatsoever. In this spirit, we enthusiastically support the

"people's consultation"
civil society initiative for a national AI strategy that's truly in the public interest.

Avoid the "garbage in, garbage out" problem
. Ensure that public-sector decision-making in
Canada continues to be driven by world-class research data, not vast datasets hoovered up without consent by AI.

No generative AI in government publications
. Federal government writing, photography, graphic
design will be done by and for humans.

End AI conflicts of interest in the public sector.
We will ensure government officials aren't invested
in the industries they regulate, including corporate AI. Canadians expect their government to be free of financial
conflicts of interest: not owning stocks in the industries you oversee just makes sense.

Regulate AI tools.
There must be regular reminders/disclaimers from chatbots and other AI tools
that they are bots, like tobacco warning labels.

Defend Workers' Rights

Canadian artists, journalists, musicians, writers, and filmmakers are being exploited by trillion-dollar tech
corporations that profit from their creative work while paying little or nothing for it. Meanwhile Canadian gig
workers deliver food and drive people around while facing precarious working conditions, low pay, and no
protections.

Avi's vision is a digital economy where labour is respected, creators are protected, and our collective work
builds a secure, sustainable future.

An Avi-led NDP would:

Support Gig and Tech Workers.
Guarantee labour protections, collective bargaining rights, and fair
wages for creators, platform workers, and digital labourers. This includes protections for freelance contracts, platform-based
gig work, and remote digital labour. We'll fight to introduce enforceable minimum standards for pay, benefits, and
workplace safety in online and app-based work, and end the misclassification of gig workers as "independent contractors"
instead of employees.

Modernize Copyright for Workers' Rights.
Build a 21st-Century Copyright Charter that guarantees
fair compensation, enforces author rights, and modernizes licensing for digital platforms in Canada. Fight for creators
to retain control over derivative works, receive ongoing royalties for AI training and digital distribution they
agree to, and have legal support to defend their rights.

Rein in Digital Surveillance and bring in Right to Repair.
Employers are increasingly using AI-driven
surveillance technology to monitor employees in nearly all sectors, from banking to farming to white collar jobs.
This surveillance can impact wages, job security, working conditions, and employment equity. Meanwhile, consumer
electronics create waste and cost through planned obsolescence while farmers can't even fix a tractor without paying
high fees to distant corporations to flip a switch and turn off a digital lock. Legislation needs to catch up with
the development of technology by establishing laws outlining workers' rights, governing the data that can be collected
by employers, and how this data can be used. And a Right to Repair law could unleash a whole new industry in homegrown
3D parts printing and repair centres, while saving consumers money and keeping e-waste out of landfills.

AI Transparency and Consent.
Require Canadian companies to publicly disclose AI training datasets
and obtain
explicit, opt-in permission
from all creators whose work is used. Non-consent must prohibit
usage, and independent audits will verify compliance, with penalties for violations. Employers will not be allowed
to claim that AI systems have expertise held by licensed professionals.

This vision also extends to the federal public servants that deliver the programs and services Canadians rely on
across the country. They do this essential work every day while being demonized by the Conservatives on the one
hand, and staring down 40,000 job cuts at the hands of the Carney Liberals on the other. We will respect their
rights at work by:

Supporting
telework arrangements
to give workers and their families flexibility, and to help recruit
and retain top-tier civil service candidates; and,

Fully implementing
pay equity
, including by investing in the Office of the Pay Equity
Commissioner to enforce compliance and resolve disputes.

Employment Insurance that Works

A robust Employment Insurance program isn't just about wage replacement. EI provides a social safety net and gives
workers the power to exercise their rights. If a worker faces exploitation, unsafe working conditions, or layoffs,
they shouldn't worry about having their basic needs met.

Currently, only one in three unemployed people can access the Employment Insurance they pay into. Workers are
deemed ineligible for reasons such as immigration status, or not meeting the minimum number of hours worked. This
is particularly challenging for part-time, gig workers, or those who are self-employed.

That's why it's vital for us to
expand eligibility so EI is accessible and universal
. Any worker
can become unemployed, notwithstanding the local unemployment rate. A
uniform entrance threshold of 360 hours
to access EI for all workers, regardless of location, would help solve this inequity.

In addition, an Avi-led NDP will push for the following changes to EI:

Improve adequacy of EI benefits for all workers.
We are in a cost-of-living crisis, and EI needs
to provide enough to keep workers out of poverty. Under Avi's leadership, we'd see an increase in EI benefits to

75% of previous earnings
with a minimum benefit of $600 per week. Our reforms would also ensure
migrant workers contributing EI premiums have full access to EI.

Eliminate the 50-week limit on combined parental special benefits and regular benefits
and extend
the reference and benefit period to 104 weeks so that new parents are not denied regular EI benefits if they get
laid off. The current 50-week limit means workers facing a layoff before or after a parental leave (which affects
women in particular), may be denied EI benefits.

Restore the EI Board of Appeals.
Avi's NDP would ensure the Liberal government keeps its promise
to re-establish this board, that includes worker representatives, so that EI appeals are accessible to workers.

Justice for Migrant Workers, Immigrants and Refugees

Migrants staff our hospitals, harvest our food, and care for our children and elderly. Without them, essential
services would collapse. Yet instead of giving these workers the rights and stability our parents and grandparents
had when they first came here with permanent residency or citizenship on arrival, the Liberals and Conservatives
changed the system, bringing in more people on temporary visas with fewer rights instead.

Then after COVID, as housing became even more unaffordable and inequality grew, both parties turned to blaming
immigrants and migrants instead of pointing to the corporations hoarding wealth. The Liberals changed immigration
rules overnight, breaking promises to people who had planned their lives and invested tens of thousands of dollars
to make Canada home. As a result, thousands are forced to leave every day. Employers are losing workers.
Communities are losing neighbours. Canadian citizens wait years to reunite with their spouses and parents.

But it doesn't have to be this way. We can give people the stability they need. We can end the exploitation that
temporary immigration breeds. We can build a country with one set of rights for everyone.

Many of us are struggling with unaffordable housing, impossible grocery prices, and services that don't meet our
needs. The problem isn't too many immigrants. The problem is a system designed for corporate profits instead of
building a country that works for all of us.

This is our plan:

Stop breaking promises.
We will stop changing rules on people in the middle of the game that punish
them and let people renew and access permits according to the rules under which they arrived; Reverse the Carney
government's cuts and hire 3,000 immigration public servants to clear the over one million backlogged applications
and reunite families now, not in decades.

End exploitation
by eliminating work permit restrictions that give employers extreme power over
workers and control over their whole lives. No more permits tied to a single employer or limits based on sector,
hours, occupation, or category; Build a single-tier immigration system with permanent resident status for all and
equal rights from day one; Create and enforce real housing standards for migrant workers—clean water, locks on doors,
cooling during heatwaves. No more cramped, unsafe, and overpriced housing; Sign the UN and ILO conventions protecting
migrant workers' rights and make Canada follow international law on worker protections.

Protect our Shared Humanity
by ending the Canada-US Safe Third Country Agreement because the US
is not safe for refugees; Establish a National Plan for Asylum with Dignity—a network of reception centres with real
funding for shelter and housing so refugees aren't left sleeping on our streets; Double the number of government-assisted
refugees to meet Canada's humanitarian commitments instead of abandoning people fleeing war and violence.

Pledge your vote for Avi and support the campaign

Donate