Solutions as big as the crises facing working Canadians. Avi's vision for a government that serves the many, not the money: public ownership, worker power, climate justice, and an economy built on care.

Ideas and Policies

New Democrats know we need bold solutions to match the scale of our crises: rising inequality and job insecurity,
the climate emergency, collapsing health care, the housing crisis, growing fascism, Trump's attacks on our
sovereignty, and the everyday struggle to get by in an impossible economy.

We're not going to let the powerful keep us divided and punching down. We're going to look up!

Party Renewal
Tax Fairness
Jobs & AI
Housing
Health & Care
Climate
Public Options

A Political Instrument of the People

Our only path forward in reviving the NDP is building the biggest tent it has ever seen. A true party of the 99%.

Make Membership Matter

Build Power to Win Change and Elections

Our Path to Victory: The Big Tent

Learn More

A Tax Plan for the 99%

A bold, winnable plan to tax the ultra-rich and raise the floor for all of us.

Tax the ultra-rich

End corporate handouts and break up monopolies

Crack down on the corporate hoarding class

Raise the floor for all of us

Learn More

Dignified Work in a Digital Age

Real solutions for the challenges workers face today.

Save jobs, democratize the workplace

Rein in artificial intelligence

Defend workers' rights

EI that works for workers

Justice for migrant workers

Learn More

Homes for the many, not the money

Implementing a national rent cap, protecting tenants, and building truly affordable housing.

Cap the rents & protect tenants

Reclaim housing for people, not profit

Build a million public homes

End homelessness

Implement a 'For Indigenous, By Indigenous Housing Strategy'

Learn More

Canada's Health & Care Economy

Fighting to save and expand our healthcare system and care economy.

Head to toe healthcare

Elder and long-term care that serves people, not profit

Expanded and improved childcare

Making care work a valued career

Learn More

A Green New Deal for Canada

Address climate and economic crises at once.

A sustainable jobs plan to create 1 million good green jobs

Free and reliable transit

Heat pumps for all

Powerlines not pipelines

Make the oil and gas companies pay

Learn More

Public Options to Stop Price Gouging

Bold public alternatives to break corporate monopolies.

A public option for groceries

A network of public telecom providers

Building a million public homes

Postal banking

A public pharmaceutical manufacturer

Learn More

Pledge your vote for Avi and support the campaign

Donate