Read Avi's full plan for party renewal
here
.

The NDP is unique among political parties in Canada. We were born out of a movement of farmers, trade unionists,
and feminists in an era where fascism was knocking on the door, and social solidarity was essential to resisting
its rise.

There's no question that this is a challenging time for New Democrats. But our campaign believes that we can build
back stronger than we ever have before; the NDP's best days are still ahead of us.

The way to rebuild our party is by empowering and trusting our members, fostering community and belonging,
speaking plainly to voters, and revitalizing our internal democracy. This is how we can transform our party into a
year-round organizing machine from coast-to-coast-to-coast and win power in Parliament.

To achieve this, we are proposing a plan to grow our party into a resilient movement:

Make Membership Matter

We will build a people-powered movement by empowering our members and Electoral District Associations (EDAs)
with the trust, tools, and funding opportunities they need. Make policy development more inclusive and
democratic. Engage in accessible political education. Strengthen our party's equity and regional commissions.
Govern with transparency and open communications. Conduct fundraising with gratitude and respect.

Build Power to Win Change and Elections

To win power, we will engage in a culture of year-round organizing. Trainings will be more frequent and
accessible, and ideally in person. We'll nominate candidates early and conduct a review of nomination and
vetting processes to ensure that when elections are called, we're ready. Demand an end to "First Past the Post"
elections and the establishment of a Citizen's Assembly on Electoral Reform to win the transformative change we
need.

Our Path to Victory: The Big Tent

Winning again means building a broad coalition that can be a force for transformative change. Focus on growing
our presence and strength in the suburbs through dedication to community. Dedicate concrete efforts to winning
rural, remote and Northern ridings. Build towards a second orange wave in Québec not just through speaking
French, but by building policy and practice out of a deep understanding of Québec's distinct role in Canada, its
politics, culture, and history. Support youth leadership development with mentorship opportunities and rebuild
our alliances with labour and social movements.

Swipe to see more

Share the vision

A Political Instrument of the People

Pledge your vote for Avi and support the campaign

Donate