Avi Lewis in Canadian media: making the case for a party that serves the many, not the money, with solutions as big as the crises facing working Canadians.

Subscribe via RSS

Does the NDP have a future? Avi Lewis thinks so

"It's not just about the Party, it's about building community and local movements. When I looked at the crowd tonight, I saw so many young people, and so many people of different ages. I really think something new is happening."

— Avi Lewis

Federal NDP candidate Avi Lewis says Canada's immigration system is broken and promises sweeping reforms

"Immigrants are part of the solution, not the cause of problems. The problem is that we have a system designed for maximum corporate profit, which dominates our economy and makes everything too expensive. We need to stop letting the system divide us and come together to fight for economic equality for everyone."

— Avi Lewis

Canada's Left Is in Crisis. Can Avi Lewis Revive It?

"Alberta is central to Canada's future": Federal NDP candidate Avi Lewis

"We need to stay focused on what everyday Canadians need to get by, and to actually create solutions as big as these crises we face that would slash the cost of living for Canadians."

— Avi Lewis

Avi Lewis woos Ottawa crowd with vision for NDP

"We're the people that criticize capitalism. We don't celebrate profits as a good unto itself, because we've got a collective sore neck from 40 years of waiting for it to trickle down."

— Avi Lewis

NDP leader hopeful Avi Lewis calls Carney's Iran response 'incoherent,' rules out byelection run

"The new leader has to get in there, actually look at the books, find out what the debt is, figure out how to be election ready as quickly as possible."

— Avi Lewis

A left-wing populist is what the NDP needs in the age of obscene wealth inequality

"They want us to keep punching down, so we don't look up."

— Avi Lewis

Avi Lewis answers Rabble's NDP leadership questionnaire

"Think Costco run as a public service – a public network of 50 grocery stores across the country would offer 30 to 45 per cent cheaper food prices and cost $300 million a year to run."

— Avi Lewis

Where do the NDP leadership hopefuls stand on queer and trans issues?

"Trans-exclusionary policies in sports are most often directed toward trans girls and women, which only reinforces sexist and transmisogynist beliefs and stereotypes"

— Avi Lewis

Socialism is the big tent — w/ Avi Lewis

Reclaiming Socialism in Canada's NDP Leadership Race

"When the market is failing to give people the things that they need at a price they can afford, that's quite literally what the government is for."

— Avi Lewis

My Interview With Avi Lewis, Candidate for Leader of the Federal NDP

You can’t beat Canada's far-right with a broken electoral system

Avi Lewis’s NDP Labour Plan Is A Remarkable Document

NDP leadership candidate Avi Lewis goes after AI data centres

'Big-swing solutions': NDP leadership candidate Avi Lewis rolls into Calgary

Avi Lewis, NDP Leadership contestant, launches town hall tour on Vancouver Island

Why I'm supporting Avi Lewis

NDP leadership candidates sprint to final fundraising, membership deadlines

NDP's Avi Lewis wants to put climate back on the table

The door's wide open for a re-invigorated NDP, and Parliament and Canada need it

Lewis Pitches Green New Deal in Race to Lead NDP

NDP leadership candidate Avi Lewis visits Halifax

"When a lot of progressive people want to flee American fascism and come here, we should be super welcoming to them"

— Avi Lewis

'Sellout of the century': NDP leadership candidates decry Alberta energy deal in first debate

"This pipeline will not be built. Not in B.C., not here in Quebec, not anywhere, it is not going to happen"

— Avi Lewis

NDP leadership debate focuses on pipeline opposition

NDP candidate Avi Lewis plays the Quebec card

"Neither here nor elsewhere!"

— Avi Lewis

Avi Lewis on the 'bold policies' that will revive the NDP

'We need a mass program of deshittification': Avi Lewis on rebuilding Canada's public services

With Carney's budget prioritizing the business elite, could this be Canada's Mamdani moment?

'We're in an Emergency. We Have Got to Start Talking'

"We're in an emergency. We have got to start talking"

— Avi Lewis

Why Avi Lewis Thinks He Can Save the NDP

'We're in an Emergency. We Have Got to Start Talking'

The NDP's next leader must be ready to challenge Canada's billionaire class

We can't keep increasing fossil fuel production, says NDP leadership candidate

"We cannot keep increasing fossil fuel production in this country. It is as much an addiction to the revenues from fossil fuels from provincial and federal governments as it is an addiction to the substance itself."

— Avi Lewis

NDP 'lost the gut' of the party, losing working-class voters to Conservatives, say leadership hopefuls looking to rebuild

Climate and energy could become wedge issue in NDP leadership contest

Only one candidate proposed bold policies at the NDP leadership forum

Avi Lewis: How to create thousands of unionized jobs

NDP's Avi Lewis helps author report accusing pro-Israel Jewish group of promoting anti-Palestinian racism

ANALYSIS: Is it time for a public grocer?

Candidate Spotlight: Avi Lewis

Finally, the left fights back

'This is comeback time': Avi Lewis launches federal NDP leadership bid

"This is comeback time"

— Avi Lewis

'Do we really want to be a two-party system like the U.S.?': Lewis launches NDP leadership bid

"Do we really want to be a two-party system like the U.S.?"

— Avi Lewis

Avi Lewis Launches federal NDP leadership bid

Avi Lewis makes NDP leadership bid to 'restore the party's fortunes'

"We're going back to our base with our humility, and we're going to focus on re-democratizing the party."

— Avi Lewis

Avi Lewis to Launch Federal NDP Leadership Bid

Avi Lewis says the NDP 'is needed now more than ever' as he eyes party leadership

Avi Lewis launches NDP leadership bid promising a 'public option' for groceries

Avi Lewis Launches Federal NDP Leadership Campaign